Ole Blog post

Over the Sonification course I had the pleasure of introducing Ole Neiling, a extradisciplinary 'life-style' artist. 
I firstly met Ole over the portal, as his talk was being hosted in Trondheim. I was in Oslo. This was an experience; he was very polite when I probably pronounced his name incorrectly - lost in portal translation!  After doing the introductions and a little delay, the lecture began. 
As it states on his webpage, Ole playfully researches the tension amongst the fields he is expert in: music, visual art, performance, new media and craftsmanship. These mixtures result in a diverse body of work with as common denominator the mentality that: Instead of accepting predetermined notions (the famous "It's just the way it is"), one could also wonder why things are the way they are and act upon the findings. 
Ole’s has achieved a lot in his career – studying in the UK, Holland and Norway, and winning three awards in 2018 including the Bcademy Graduate Award. 
 One of his main influences has been with recorder building. In November 2017 Ole started an apprenticeship at the world renowned workshop of Adriana Breukink. This allowed a daily insight in traditional instrument-building alongside an artistic practise – this theme of interdisciplinary and exradiciplinary practices is important to Ole’s work, and is central to the talk he gives over the portal to us lucky participants.
Ole’s themes he discusses are; Music and language, what makes you human and 
Also how to brainwash children! The first half he shows how he thinks about his work, second half into the projects themselves.

It can feel a little jarring speaking over a string of multiple screens to two or more audiences. This was a worthy experiment though, I felt that the introductions worked, not just because of the novelty factor of being in another city, but on an aesthetic level I thought the discussion was framed well in the portal, and the setting works thematically with the sonification subject matter we are studying. 
