---
layout: post
title:  "Group B, Making the Precampler"
date:   2018-10-21 17:35:00 +0200
categories: Physical computing
author: Mari Lesteberg, Dmitry Vasilev, Ashane Silva, Shreejay Shreshta & Eigil Aandahl
comments: true
---

Physical Computing Workshop lasted for 4 days. The first three days introduced topics related to circuit sniffing, soundwalking, making sounds through computers and mobile phone using javascript codes, and finally playing with arduino board and little bits. On the final day, we were asked to design an instrument based on whatever we learnt from the workshop. It was a great challenge for all of us as each group combined members from both Oslo and Trondheim campus. Two options were given for the taSk. Either to make one instrument, which could be played across the two campuses, or two different instruments that could compliment each other. Our group decided to go with the latter option.

The Oslo team focused on the concept of combining the digital and analog worlds that we had explored during the past workshops. We called it an analog digital hybrid percussive synthesizer aka “Percampler”. Dimitry worked on the sampler based on javascript codes introduced on the first day of the worksshop and the sounds recorded during the soundwalk exercise that same day. The team connected the sampler to  Littlebits with a mini jack cable. The team also experimented applying handwaving smart-phone application, an exercise that we did on the second day of the workshop. But it was not successful as our cell phone did not connect well with the computer and the javascript codes. Mari had another idea to use her MIDI keyboard with the sampler. She had experience of using it with other musical appliations made with Pure Data. However, we could not make it work as we lacked control over the javascript codes. We finally sticked with connecting the sampler to the LittleBits. Dimitry controlled his laptop while Mari and Ashane worked with modifying sounds through LittleBits.

The Trondheim team made an instrument working with contact microphone. The prototype included a contact microphone, an amplifyer to enhance the sound input, four pieces from Littlebits with power, mic, delay and speaker, and finally connected to a small speaker to boost the output sound. All of the components were housed in a paper box as shown in the figure. The team hooked up the contact microphone to a cymbal borrowed from recording studio at the Fjordgata campus. Shreejay and Eigil decided to produce sound with drum sticks and control it through the littlebits pices, in turn. 

The allocated time to plan, design, make the prototype and prepare for performance was just 3 hours. Therefore, we did not have enough time to plan for the performance. In fact all 3 groups did not manage to practice for the final performance. We could not also plan to make the pitch. Everything was impromptu in a way. However, it was a great fun in the end. We could at least use some knowledge that we learnt from the workshop. 

Lesson Learnt : START LEARNING CODING (EMOJI ??)



